---
id: 174
title: "AngularJS"
times: "18:30:00"
dates: 2014-08-12
layout: post
---
 **Abstract**

Most JavaScript frameworks dislike HTML. They treat it as a limitation that needs to be cast away as soon as possible. They either replace it with a new template system, or they build up the view by directly manipulating the DOM.  
  
AngularJS sees the problem differently. It choose to build the view system on top of HTML. It extends HTML to provide two way data binding, validation, REST support, and the concept of reusable components. It let you create clean testable controller using plain JavaScript.   
  
Of course, the first question people always ask is, who uses it? These days it feels like a new JavaScript framework is announced weekly. Google use AngularJS for the DoubleClick platform rewrite.   
  
Come see how AngularJS can change your web development experience.   

**Bio**

Mac Liaw entered The Ohio State University's Masters Program in Computer Science at age 15. He was a member of the CERN development team that established HTTP and HTML. He is active in the Linux Kernel, Groovy development and Haskell open source project. Currently he is CylaTech.com Inc’s VP of Technology and has been involved in video games development since Playstation 2 and Xbox. He currently oversees PS3 and 360 video games development and special effects projects at CylaTech.com Inc. He also serves as the CTO of Worthpoint Corp, an antiques and collectible focused website using Grails and GWT.

