---
id: 101
title: "NoSQL"
author: "Iran Hutchinson"
times: "18:30:00"
dates: 2011-06-14
layout: post
location-id: "OCLC's Kilgour building auditorium"  
description: 
tags: 
---
 **Abstract**

The NoSQL movement has seen a lot of fanfare online.&nbsp; However, after traveling and speaking with customers, colleagues, and other database companies there are number of questions around NoSQL that have inconsistent answers or no answers at all.&nbsp; This session attempts to delve into NoSQL from its origins to modern day to tackle some of these questions:

- What is the NoSQL movement?
- What are the arguments behind using a NoSQL database for Java?&nbsp;
- Who is actually deploying these systems?
- When do I choose a NoSQL database?&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
- How do I use a NoSQL database?
- How to succeed with a NoSQL database and Java?&nbsp;&nbsp;
- What does the future hold for traditional RDBMS vendors?  

The session will use online data and case studies as well as InterSystems company case studies of successful NoSQL deployments.&nbsp; We will answer the "How do I use a NoSQL database?" question by:

- Installing at least 2 NoSQL databases. (Install takes minutes and requirements/setup are different).

- Reviewing the Java APIs for the installed databases.
- Writing / Reviewing / Running source code against the Java APIs and comparing the results of implementing a CRUD (Create Read Update Delete) use case.
- Optimize and measure performance of the solutions in previous.
- Time permitting, discuss/setup distributed environment for the CRUD tests.  

We will answer the "How do I choose a NoSQL database?" via review of an online editable (wiki) and dynamic feature matrix that hopes to be the foundation for NoSQL comparison information.&nbsp; The matrix is dynamic in that it allows users to compare 1 ~ N databases (N = to the number of databases in the system).&nbsp; The matrix is editable because it allows any registered user to edit/add information.

[Slides](http://globalsdb.files.wordpress.com/2011/06/trouble_with_nosql_dbs.ppt)

[Blog](http://%20globalsdb.org/blog)

**Bio**

Iran Hutchinson serves as product manager and software/systems architect at InterSystems.&nbsp; He is one of the people behind the Globals project at [globalsdb.org](globalsdb.org) . He has held architecture and development positions at startups and Fortune 50 companies.&nbsp; He focuses on language platforms, data management technologies, distributed/cloud computing, and high performance computing.&nbsp; When not on trail talking with fellow geeks or behind the computer you can find him eating (just look for the nearest steak house).

